# Designing for High Availability

## Definition
In any system of reasonable complexity, it is expected that failures will occur. While designing your architecture, you should think about the resiliency of your system, which is the ability of a workload to recover from infrastructure, service, or application disruptions.

The components of resiliency are high availability and disaster recovery. Disaster recovery focuses on disaster events. Availability focuses on more common disruptions of a smaller scale, such as component failures, network issues, software bugs, and load spikes.

This lesson focuses on high availability; you will learn about disaster recovery later in this module.

The following sections explain the best practices for implementing high availability.

### Fault Tolerance

Fault tolerance is the ability to withstand subsystem failure and maintain availability.

Workloads with a requirement for high availability must be architected for resiliency with the following practices:
- Monitor all components of the workload to detect failures.
- Fail over to healthy resources.
- Automate healing on all layers.
- Send notifications when events impact availability.

### Fault Isolation

Fault isolation minimizes the scope of impact when a failure does occur. Workloads are broken down into small subsystems that fail independently and can be repaired in isolation. The failure of a module does not propagate beyond the module.

Best practices for fault isolation include the following:
- Distribute workload data and resources across multiple Availability Zones or, where necessary, across AWS Regions.
- Automate recovery for components constrained to a single Availability Zone.
